# Covid-19: Calculating Infection Probability

#### Note- This is not an official dataset. 
**Overview:** 
Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by severe acute
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The disease was first identified in 2019 in Wuhan, China, and has since spread globally, resulting in the 2019–20 coronavirus pandemic. Epidemiologists are teaming up with data scientists to stem the spread of the novel coronavirus by tapping big data, machine learning and other digital tools. The goal is to get real-time forecasts and other critical information to front-line health-care workers and public policy makers as the outbreak unfolds. The objective of the Hackathon is to predict the probability of person getting infected by Covid-19.

**Background:** 
Coronaviruses are a family of hundreds of viruses that can cause fever, respiratory problems, and sometimes gastrointestinal symptoms too. The 2019 novel coronavirus is one of seven members of this family known to infect humans, and the third in the past three decades to jump from animals to humans. Since emerging in China in December, this new coronavirus has caused a global health emergency, sickening almost 200,000 people worldwide, and so far killing more than 9,000. As of March 19, about 10000 cases had been reported in the US, and 155 people havedied.
In Wuhan, home to 11 million people, the initial number of cases was 40, estimated by a group of researchers led by Natsuko Imai of Imperial College. The number of exposed was assumed to be 20 times this number. The basic reproduction number (BRN) is the expected number of cases directly generated by one case. A BRN greater than one indicates that the outbreak is self-sustaining,
while a BRN less than one indicates that the number of new cases decreases over time and eventually the outbreak will stop. Ideally, the BRN should be reduced in order to slow down an epidemic. The BRN in the first three phases was estimated to be 3.1, 2.6, and 1.9, respectively. In the Cell Discovery article, the BRN is assumed to have decreased to 0.9 or 0.5 in phase IV, based on previous experience in SARS. According to an article in Science in 2003, the BRN of SARS
decreased from 2.7 to 0.25 after the patients were isolated and the infection
started being controlled.The better we can track the virus, the better we can fight it. By analyzing different parameters responsible for the outbreak of coronavirus, we can take
controlling measures in an accelerated way.
 
 **Problem Statement**:
 India has 197 Total cases, out of which there are 4 deaths reported and 173 of those cases are still active. With a hope of controlling the epidemic, this machine learning problem is designed to cater the need of a prediction model that can predict the probability of a person getting infected by covid-19. The whole world is participating in a fight against this pandemic. The healthcare data science community can have a big impact on combating this disease. There have been many excellent efforts to use data visualization and monte carlo simulations to help combat the spread of this pandemic. The expected prediction model would address a complimentary and important aspect of health policy, identifying those most at risk. By combining the efforts of these and many other excellent efforts in the healthcare technology space, we hope to mitigate the effects of this terrible disease.
The objective of the problem statement is to predict the probability of a person getting infected by Covid-19 on 20th March 2020. The output file 01 should contain only people_ID and the respective infect_prob for the test data.

**Data Description:**

1. Variable_Description.xlsx :
This file contains description of all the variables available in the dataset
2. Training_data.xlsx :
This is the training dataset on which model has to be trained, which contains
parameters of a person on 20th March 2020
3. Test_data.xlsx :
This is the test data on which accuracy of the model will be computed

## Description of the files
* `Covid-19_challenge.ipynb` is the jupyter file containing all the analysis and code for clustering and identifying the commercial centers of New Delhi.
* `data/` contains .csv files.



